README.md, before:

<p align="center"> <img width="200" src="./src/assets/logo.png" /> </p> <div align="center"> <a href="https://test.pypi.org/project/mictlanx/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.0.1--alpha.0-green" alt="build - 0.0.1-alpha.0"></a> </div> <div align="center"> <h1>Axo: <span style="font-weight:normal;">UI</span></h1> </div>

The Axo UI is a modern, user-friendly interface designed to interact seamlessly with the Axo Backend. Built with Vue.js and Vuetify, this interface empowers users to create, manage, and interact with active objects efficiently and intuitively.

---

## ⚙️ Prerequisites
Ensure you have the following installed before running the project:

- Node.js 18+
- npm (for package management)
- A running instance of the **[Axo Backend](https://github.com/fatimacm/axo-backend)**

---

## 🚀 Installation
### Step 1: Clone the repository
```sh
git clone https://github.com/fatimacm/axo-ui.git
cd axo-ui
```

### Step 2: Install dependencies
```sh
npm install
```

---

## ▶️ Usage
### Run development server:
```sh
npm run dev
```
This will start the development server on http://localhost:5173/.

### Build for production:
```sh
npm run build
```
This command prepares the application for deployment by generating optimized files in the **dist** folder. Use this step only when the application is ready for production.

---


## 🌐 Documentation
Detailed API documentation is available through the backend:

Swagger UI: http://localhost:17000/docs

---

## 💬 Contributing
Pull requests are welcome! For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you'd like to propose. ❤️

Commit message:

chore(env): add .env.dev template and update README with env instructions

README.md, after:

<p align="center"> <img width="200" src="./src/assets/logo.png" /> </p> <div align="center"> <a href="https://test.pypi.org/project/mictlanx/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.0.1--alpha.0-green" alt="build - 0.0.1-alpha.0"></a> </div> <div align="center"> <h1>Axo: <span style="font-weight:normal;">UI</span></h1> </div>

The Axo UI is a modern, user-friendly interface designed to interact seamlessly with the Axo Backend. Built with Vue.js and Vuetify, this interface empowers users to create, manage, and interact with active objects efficiently and intuitively.

---

## ⚙️ Prerequisites
Ensure you have the following installed before running the project:

- Node.js 18+
- npm (for package management)
- A running instance of the **[Axo Backend](https://github.com/fatimacm/axo-backend)**

---

## 🚀 Installation
### Step 1: Clone the repository
```sh
git clone https://github.com/fatimacm/axo-ui.git
cd axo-ui
```

### Step 2: Install dependencies
```sh
npm install
```

---

## 🛠️ Configuration with Environment Variables

This project uses environment variables to configure API URLs and versions. This allows you to run the UI in different environments without changing the source code.

### Step 1: Copy the development environment file
```sh
cp .env.dev .env.local
```

### Step 2: Edit .env.local to configure variables as needed
```env
# CryptoMesh API
VITE_CRYPTOMESH_URL=http://localhost:19000
VITE_CRYPTOMESH_API_VERSION=v1

# ShieldX API (Choreography)
VITE_SHIELDX_URL=http://localhost:20000
VITE_API_VERSION=v1
```

---

## ▶️ Usage
### Run development server:
```sh
npm run dev
```
This will start the development server on http://localhost:5173/.

### Build for production:
```sh
npm run build
```
This command prepares the application for deployment by generating optimized files in the **dist** folder. Use this step only when the application is ready for production.

---


## 🌐 Documentation
Detailed API documentation is available through the backend:

Swagger UI: http://localhost:17000/docs

---

## 💬 Contributing
Pull requests are welcome! For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you'd like to propose. ❤️
